Verbesserung der Maintenance.md (#7)
ILIAS-TechnicalBoard/ILIAS: docs/development/maintenance.md

> # Coordinator Model

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Maintenance
```

Author: Hab das noch zu "Maintainer Model" geändert um das parallel zu dem Coordinator Model zu halten. Das hängt wahrscheinlich auch mit den Dateinamen zusammen. Ich würde das ebenfalls zur Diskussion in das Forum stellen.

> # Coordinator Model

Author: ```suggestion
# Maintainer Model
```

## Table of Contents

<!-- MarkdownTOC depth=0 autolink="true" bracket="round" autoanchor="true" style="ordered" indent="   " -->
1. [Role of the Maintainer](#role-of-the-maintainer)
1. [Change Management](#change-management)
1. [Issue Management](#issue-management)
1. [Scenarios](#scenarios)
1. [What can be expected of a coordinator?](#expectations)

<!-- /MarkdownTOC -->
<a name="role-of-the-maintainer"></a>
## Role of the Maintainer

Each component ([Module](../../Modules), [Service](../../Service), [Library](../../src)
and some special cases as language-files) is either maintained by a maintainer
or collectively maintained within the [Coordinator Model](maintenance-coordinator.md).

New developers are welcome to the project, but the system has reached a certain
complexity in code as well as in features that could be hard to grasp for newcomers.
Even if we try to document our system better and simplify where possible, we still
need to guarantee the sustainability and quality of our development process.

Maintainers take this responsibility for their specific component. Besides the
maintenance they assure proper communication among developers that are working
on the component.

> The Maintainer is understood to be the owner of a component and are basically the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Maintainer is understood to be the owner of a component and is basically the
```

> only ones that are permitted to make changes in a component. Decisions about

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
only one that is permitted to make changes in it. Decisions about
```

features in the component are made together with the product manager on the JF.
This implies that mostly the maintainer is the only possible contractor for work

> on a component that should be included in the official ILIAS-core. The maintainer

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
on a component that should be included in the official ILIAS-core. Maintainers
```

may delegate the permission to make changes to other developers at their own
discretion for specific parts of their component or even for the complete component.

The PM and the TB appoint or replace maintainers. The maintainer role belongs to
a person, not a company. Since the role builds on social capital in the community

> and a vision of the component, it will be near impossible to leave that role at

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
and a vision of the component, it will be near impossible to leave that role with
```

> a company when moving on.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
a company when a maintainer moves on.
```

It is encouraged that maintainers appoint second or even third maintainers for
their respective components and introduce them to the inner workings of the
component to enhance the component's [Bus factor](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bus_factor).

<a name="change-management"></a>
## Change Management
Changes of features of the component (be it introduction of a new feature,
changes in or removal of an existing feature) are decided upon by the maintainer
of a component together with the product manager on the Jour Fixe, according
to the process to handle [feature requests](http://www.ilias.de/docu/goto.php?target=wiki_5307&client_id=docu#ilPageTocA119).

> Changes in the code of a component are privilege of the maintainer, which might

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Changes in the code of a component are the privilege of the maintainer, which might
```

be delegated to other developers. Proposals for bugfixes or improvements of some

> component can be handed by contributors according to the [guidelines for contributions](contributing.md)

Reviewer 2: I assume:
```suggestion
component can be handed in by contributors according to the [guidelines for contributions](contributing.md)
```

and are recognized by responsible maintainers.

<a name="issue-management"></a>
## Issue Management

> Issues with components are handed in a the [Issue-Tracker](http://mantis.ilias.de).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Issues with components are handed in through the [Issue-Tracker](http://mantis.ilias.de).
```
